### What is Encryption and Why is it Important?

Encryption is a process where your data is obscured & transformed into a special code in order to guard against unauthorised access. Only users with a decryption key or password can read your encrypted data (or ciphertext). It's best to think of encryption like sending secret coded messages between persons in a select group.

Encryption is one of the components in the recommended line of defence for your digital assets. Cyber criminals can often illicit data indiscriminately and gain access to what would otherwise be highly sensitive and exposed data if not for it having been encrypted.

We recommend that you install the following free encryption tools:

**BitLocker**  
BitLocker is a full volume encryption feature included with Microsoft Windows.](https://www.barracuda.com/)

  

BitLocker encrypts the files on your entire hard disk - even when your computer system is offline (or not connected to the Internet). This programme uses a dedicated processor to guard your hardware and ensures that you always have security whenever you start your operating system. This encryption tool can be incorporated in the latest Windows operating systems.

**FileVault**  
FileVault is a disk encryption program in Mac OS X 10.3 and later.](https://www.barracuda.com/)

FileVault is the full-disk encryption tool for persons with a Mac operating system. This programme is integrated into the Mac OS X. You can follow these activation steps:

- Go to the Apple menu > select "System Preferences" > then click "Security & Privacy".
- Click the FileVault tab.
- Click on the lock icon > enter an administrator username and password. 
- Click "Turn On FileVault".

Once the program is activated, you can select the user profiles that FileVault will apply to. You can also select a recovery option and reset your FileVault password via your iCloud account.

If your company's operating system is managed by an external party, we recommend that you instruct them to enable encryption on all devices.