### Incident Response Policy

Cyber threats are constantly evolving, posing a consistent and dynamic risk to the secure operation of businesses. They present a challenge to organisations of all sizes; to implement and maintain effective security procedures that ensure the privacy, security, and availability of your information systems.

Unfortunately, breaches occur in spite of even the best cyber security measures. Large scale corporations that have dedicated millions to their cybersecurity budget can and do experience crippling data breaches regardless.  
  
However, the key to lessening the impact of a cyber attack or data breach is always to implement swift and effective counter-measures. Just as we have standardised responses to possible natural disasters, you should also ensure that your business has a clear and thorough incident response policy in place.

We have included our Sample Incident Response Policy document as a guide. We strongly recommend that you adjust this policy document to suit your organisation's needs. We also recommend that you visit the following OAIC & Digital Govt page to review the recommended contents of your Incident Response Plan (IRP):

**OAIC**  
We protect your personal information by upholding Australia’s national privacy laws, resolving privacy complaints and investigating potential data breaches.](https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy)

**Digital Govt NZ**  
The Digital Strategy for Aotearoa and its Action Plan aim to secure Aotearoa New Zealand’s place as a world-leading, trusted, thriving digital nation.](https://www.digital.govt.nz/standards-and-guidance/privacy-security-and-risk/privacy/privacy-incidents-and-breaches/privacy-incident-response-plan/)

  

Please review this website in tandem with the above sample incident response policy document. We recommend that you then craft your own company's incident response policy document and immediately implement the same.

A comprehensive incident response policy requires the complete support of everyone in your organisation - from senior management to the end users of your systems. This requires a standardised method to document each possible incident. To this end, we have also added a sample Incident Response Form for your adjustment and immediate implementation in your company.