### Endpoint Security

We live in a technology-driven world where our most valued assets are digital. As such, we need to know how to protect them. Think of your company as a castle filled with valuable treasures. You would not leave your castle defenceless against marauders, would you? You would most likely have a moat, a guarded drawbridge, and soldiers posted at your gates and along your walls.

Your anti-virus protection is your defence mechanism against attempts to illegally access your digital treasures. There are a number of methods that can be used to compromise the integrity of your cyber resources. These include:

- Viruses/worms which infect a given computer system and replicate across other connected systems. These viruses destroy files and slow down your computer processes.
    
- Trojans access a computer system and execute functions without the knowledge and approval of the owners of that system.
    
- Ransomware are used to re-write your digital files so that you can not access them. Then you would be asked to make an untraceable ransom payment in order to get your files back.
    
- Credential Stealers use software such as key loggers to record login names, passwords and other confidential information for future access and use.
    

Not only can your assets be subject to a one-time cyber attack, but it is possible to have repeated malicious attacks. Your anti-virus software helps to protect your digital treasures by identifying incoming threats to (or malicious attempts on) your computer system, locating and destroying such threats, and giving you frequent warnings about other possible threats or attempts.

There are a variety of anti-virus applications that are commercially available. However there are also variations in their configurations, which can determine the range of your protection. We will consider the two main types of anti-virus protection below:

**Basic Protection**

- Antivirus is installed on all workstations and servers.
    
- Anti-virus programs automatically update.
    
- Users are familiar with using the anti-virus application and what action to take if notifications appear.
    

With this approach, the anti-virus software is installed and managed within the organisation. However, if notifications/warnings are sent, then these are only known within that company. This can be problematic if the user of a vulnerable computer does not fully understand the meaning of the notification and the required corrective steps to be taken.

**Advanced Protection**

- All virus warnings are logged and analysed by IT manager.
    
- Summary of virus activity provided to management on a monthly basis.
    
- Anti-virus installed on mobile devices.
    

We recommend that you generate frequent reports that outline the number of threats (or attempts) and the summary of the attacked computers. You would be able to see trends which may identify your most vulnerable staff. You can then further strengthen your defences by providing this personnel with better awareness training and/or restricted access.