Cyber Security Terms
Much like any other field, cybersecurity is home to a bunch of terms & jargon that can seem intimidating at first glance. However, many common Cyber Security Terms are both super-helpful and easy to understand once they're explained in plain English.

Read ahead for more information on common Cyber Security Terms.

Anti-virus Software
Anti-virus software (or anti-malware program) refers to programs & software that are used to locate, stop, and destroy malicious software (malware). Malware can include phishing attacks, ransomware, trojans, and other general viruses targetting your systems.

In addition to using anti-virus software, we recommend that you combine other lines of defense such as an encryption programme and a strong firewall to ensure that you're well-protected.

Cyber Attack
A cyber-attack is any category of offensive action used by cyber criminals to either deposit malicious code into your computer system, gain unwarranted access to your system(s), or fraudulently attain your data.

The intent of such actions commonly includes theft, the modification and/or destruction of data, and the manipulation of your systems, devices, and/or virtual identity in coordinated attacks against others.

Drive-by Download
A drive-by download can be either:

A download that you have authorised without fully understanding the consequences.

An unintended download of a virus or other malicious software (malware) onto your device.

A drive-by download can occur when you visit a website, when you click on links in an infected email, or when you click on pop-up windows. It's important to stay aware of what we are downloading, as well as keeping your operating system/anti-virus software up-to-date to guard against malware through drive-by downloads.

Exploit
An exploit is software, data, or commands which take advantage of vulnerabilities in your system. Exploits cause unusual behaviour in your computer software and hardware. Once again, it is recommended that you keep your operating system and its defenses current to protect against exploits.

Keylogging
Keylogging (or keystroke logging) occurs when online criminals secretly record (or log) the keys that you touch on your keyboard in order to obtain your private information. We recommend that you install anti-spyware software to detect and disable such malware.

Malvertising
Malvertising (or malicious advertising) is the misuse of electronic advertising to distribute malware. These online culprits insert malware code into advertising networks or legitimate websites, which then infect your computer systems whenever you interact with these sources.

Malware
Malware (malicious software) is software that is used by cyber criminals to do the following without your knowledge:

Illegally access your private computer systems,

Disrupt the operation of your computer systems,

Collect confidential data.

Some examples of malware are ransomware, spyware, Trojans and viruses. Malware is generally distributed through code, scripts, and active content embedded in legitimate sources such as documents and websites.

Patching
Patching occurs when you update software to a more recent version. A patch is a minor update released by the manufacturer to address vulnerabilities in the existing software. We recommend that you allow your software to automatically update to keep your system free of glitches.

Phishing
Phishing is one method online criminals use to obtain private information (login credentials, payment card info, etc.) by impersonating a legitimate entity (such as your bank) in emails or through other virtual communication media. Phishing can also be considered as social engineering, as it entails the use of deception to harm victims.

Ransomware
Ransomware is a form of malware that cyber criminals use to encrypt your files (or lock you out of your system), and then they request an untraceable ransom payment before releasing your files to you (or restoring your access). We ask that you regularly backup your files to a remote server.

Social engineering
Social engineering is a common technique used by cyber criminals to hack a system. It focuses on psychological manipulation to lead victims to perform certain harmful actions or to disclose sensitive information.

Spam
In short; spam is unsolicited emails and other electronic communications. Spam may seem benign, but they often contain malware that is used to execute severe cyber attacks. Always treat emails and other communications cautiously, in consideration that they could be spam.

Trojan (Trojan horse)
A Trojan horse (or Trojan) is a form of malware that disguises itself as a normal file or programme designed to trick you into installing that malware into your system. A Trojan can be very harmful as it allows cyber criminals to:

Replicate the malware,

Steal your personal data,

Monitor your virtual/online activity,

Use your computer in a coordinated attack against other targets,

Hold your files and/or computer system ransom,

Crash your computer,

Format your disks and/or destroy all your computer files.

Zero-Day Virus
Zero-Day viruses occur when online criminals find an area of vulnerability in a piece of software that doesn't require human participation to exploit. They then take advantage of the glitch and attack users and systems unexpectedly. These attacks cannot be easily rebuffed as these Zero-Day Viruses are often completely new, leaving anti-virus programmes ill-equipped to immediately address them.

