### What does it mean to harden your browser?

It is possible for cyber criminals to steal your personal information from your browser via malware embedded on the back-end of legitimate sites. A hardened browser is a browser that has had it's security features and general configuration adjusted to mitigates the risks & threats that users will encounter while browsing the web.

Most of us use more than one type of browser. The most popular web browsers, like Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox and Internet Explorer, are installed on Mac OS X and most Windows & operating systems with a default configuration. In the following guide, we will focus on hardening these top three web browsers.

However before we do that, let's have a look at some common risks that we may encounter while operating with our standard browser features.

### Standard browser features and their risks

It is best that you explore your common browser features before you attempt to harden & reconfigure it for increased online security and privacy. We recommend that you consider the applicability of each feature to your business operations before you decide to disable it.

- ActiveX is a Windows operating system software add-on which generally comes pre-installed on computers that have Internet Explorer. ActiveX is required by some websites, which can actively prompt users to install it. However, cyber criminals are actually capable of embedding malware into ActiveX installations. We recommend that you do not install ActiveX (especially if you are being prompted to do so by a suspect website) unless it is absolutely necessary and from a valid resource.
    
- Java is a programming language that is used to create applications on our computers or run active web content. Java consists of two aspects: the JavaScript application that runs on our computers and the Java browser plug-in.
    
- JavaScript is a programming language that makes web pages interactive and display dynamic content - which improves your online experience. The issue with JavaScript is that many viruses are also script-based and can be easily embedded into the programme.
    
- The Java browser plug-in creates loopholes that may allow hackers to access your personal information (such as login and banking credentials). We recommend that you disable this feature - unless it is expressly needed in your business operations.
    
- Cookies are small files that are created by websites and are either temporarily stored in your computer for that browsing session, or permanently stored on your computer's hard disk. These cookies enable websites to recognize you and to track your browsing patterns. Although they can be used by a website to improve your online experience, there are attendant privacy concerns and security issues.
    
- Extensions (or add-ons) are software that add (or change) a feature or a function in your browser. Some popular extensions are ad blockers, or extensions built into social media sites such as Adobe in Youtube. However once again, these are popular applications and are attractive vehicles for cyber criminals looking to transmit malware.
    

### Securing your web browsers: Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome

It is very important that you follow the correct procedures to configure your browser for improved security and privacy. Hardening your browser is not 100% effective against cyber threats, but it will lessen the probability of successful web attacks.