# Idea

> In today’s environment, social engineering attacks are prevalent and increasing. The human element is often the weakest component in a company’s security. Attackers know this and exploit it. 47% of cyber security attacks such as social engineering, spear phishing and ransomware attacks are financial motivated. With PhishingBox, you can easily conduct simulated phishing attacks to test employees' security awareness. Our Phishing Simulator allows you to create custom groups with as many phishing targets as you would like. You can target any employee or group of employees with a simulated spear phishing attack.  Our Phishing Simulator allows you to craft a simple email message and send it to one or several recipients using a specified mail server. You can create multiple tests targeting specific groups with one of our custom-built phishing templates or you can create your own test using our Phishing Template Builder. Spear phishing is a common everyday occurrence and a phishing awareness training program is critical to preventing these scams.
> 

A business that goes to companies and

Did you know that 90% of hacks happen because your employees type their passwords on the wrong page. We’re going to send false phishing emails to your employees, but don’t worry, when they type your emails in the account it won’t go anywhere.

We’ll generate a report. This employee clicked this link. This would have been a breach. Thankfully we caught it. You can educate your employees better. This is a way that your employees are not going to fall for this.

[phishers.com](http://phishers.com/)

LurM

---

My First Million is a popular business and technology podcast. In a recent episode, Shaan Puri (@ShaanVP) and Steph Smith (@stephsmithio) of a16z discussed social engineering and the phishing simulation market that grew to try to address it. We break down what we learned from hearing them talk. My First Million is a popular business and technology podcast. In a recent episode, Shaan Puri (@ShaanVP) and Steph Smith (@stephsmithio) of a16z discussed social engineering and the phishing simulation market that grew to try to address it.There were a few interesting takeaways from hearing Shaan and Steph talk about social engineering and hacking.
 Social Engineering is not Common KnowledgeAt Haekka, we live in a small niche that lies within the world of security. The world we live in is security training, which is sometimes referred to as security awareness, human risk, or phishing. This niche is large in dollars but is specialized.Living in security training, we tend to assume everybody just knows that social engineering is a major problem and is the cause of most security incidents and data breaches. The MFM podcast discussion of social engineering was a good reminder that social engineering is not a problem most people know about or think about every day like we do.This has ramifications for how we approach security awareness training. At Haekka, we’ve been beating the drum that the current approaches to security awareness are not effective at building a security mindset. Part of having a security mindset is knowing that social engineering is something you’ll have to defend against. It’s knowing that attacks can come at any time and in any form – email, text, social media, voice, etc. This is knowledge most people do not have and knowledge people do not gain from security awareness vendors.
 The Phishing Market Grew with Social EngineeringOne of the comments on the podcast talked about companies that have created a market by offering ways to test employees using fake emails. These phishing simulations were discussed as cheaper than having an employee fall victim to a real phishing attack. It’s true that phishing simulations are cheaper than being the victim of a large data breach.But, the primary role of phishing simulation is to assess risk. The infrequent nature of phishing simulations means they are not very effective at preventing social engineering attacks. That is not to say they do not have a role. They are just one aspect of an effective social engineering prevention program and their primary value is in assessing the effectiveness of your overall program.
 Phishing Campaigns are NOT Security AwarenessIn the discussion on the podcast, there was no mention of training about passwords or updating devices or any other topics typically covered as a part of security awareness training. Phishing, while often bought and sold with security awareness, is not packaged together when non-security people think about it.‍